---
title: "iOS focus app"
pubDate: "May 30 2023"
---

I'm working on an app to solve a tiny frustration I have with iOS.

iOS's new-ish "focus" feature lets you create a notification allow- or deny-list while in a "focus" mode. Meanwhile, "Screen Time" lets you block applications entirely, based on daily time limits or a nightly "Downtime" mode.[^1]

But what I'd like to do is allow-/deny-list entire apps on demand (a la [SelfControl](https://selfcontrolapp.com/) -- which helped me get through college), all from control center. There are a few apps that fill this gap, but they're all subscription based. Fair enough, get paid, but I don't need a ton of features and slick UI here.

Most of my iOS experience has been focused on developer productivity and CI -- so these are some notes on getting started in app development in 2023.

### Tooling

I've been moving towards managing all of my development tooling with nix, but Xcode can't be installed via nix (as far as I can tell -- I imagine there are licensing issues), and Xcode really wants to manage the entire Swift toolchain. So no nix flakes here.

At a previous job I used [bazel](https://github.com/bazelbuild/rules_apple) to build a large iOS codebase, but that feels overkill for a project with single-digit source files. Plus, `.pbxproj` merge conflicts aren't too bad when you're developing solo.

#### Code formatting
[swift-format](https://github.com/apple/swift-format) is nice. I built it from source and threw it in `~/bin`.

To format all swift code in a directory (`-i`n place, `-r`ecursively):
```zsh
$ swift-format -i -r .
```

#### SwiftUI
I'm watching a few videos from [a Stanford course](https://cs193p.sites.stanford.edu/) to get up to speed on SwiftUI and how it fits into general app architecture.

[^1]: I do not envy the folks who had to figure out how to reconcile the overlapping concepts of "Do Not Disturb", "Sleep", "Screen Time" and "Downtime" with "Focus." There's a default "Sleep Focus," which is a pretty funny way of describing what sleep is all about.
